day08_wed/README.md, before:

# Plan Day 8 (Week 2, Wed)

## Announcements
- Workload: perspectives, market, adapt course, growth mindset
- Please send daily feedback in Slack DMs to the questions found [HERE](https://github.com/codefellows/portland-201d3/blob/master/notes.md).

---

## Code Review [30 min]

---

## Reading Review [60 min]

**HTML Chapter 7: "Forms"**

- p.148: Form controls
- pp.149-50: How forms work
- pp.151-62 : Form structure, overview of all input types
- p.163: Labelling form controls
- p.164: \<fieldset\> and grouping form elements
- pp.165-68 : HTML5 form features (validation, dates, email, URL search)

**HTML Chapter 14: "Lists, Table & Forms" (CSS)**

- p.333-36: Bullet point styles/positioning for lists
- p.337-40: Table properties (VERY useful reference)
- p.341-44: Styling [forms, inputs, buttons, fieldsets, legends]
- p.345: Aligning form controls

**JS Chapter 6: "Events"**

- pp.246-47	Different event types (big list!)
- p.248	How events trigger JavaScript code
- pp.250-53	Three ways to bind an event to an element
- p.254	Event listeners
- p.260	Event flow
- p.264	Using event listeners with the event object
- p.268	Using event delegation
- p.270	Which element did an event occur on?
- p.271	Different types of events
- p.272	User interface events
- p.280	Keyboard events
- p.282	Form events
- p.286	HTML5 events

---

## Dev Tools [15 min]
- Zoom.us group video call demo
- Static code analysis
- Chrome dev tools
  - Code execution trace. Buggy app test: single-step: over, into, out of, resume (&quot;play&quot;)
  - Call stack
  - Review: watch window and context changes
  - Review: "In-place" edits, incl. color palette and color "sampler"

---

## Lab prep [60 min]
- Demo working web app
- Review assignment
- Mob coding
  - HTML
    - 2 text inputs
    - 2 tables (each table has 2 rows)
    - 1 button for user input
  - JS
    - Event handler for button click: get user input
    - Create new table &quot;sub-tree&quot; fill in w/ text from user
    - Append table to DOM

Commit message:

+placeholder text, pre-filled in value

day08_wed/README.md, after:

# Plan Day 8 (Week 2, Wed)

## Announcements
- Workload: perspectives, market, adapt course, growth mindset
- Please send daily feedback in Slack DMs to the questions found [HERE](https://github.com/codefellows/portland-201d3/blob/master/notes.md).

---

## Code Review [30 min]

---

## Reading Review [60 min]

**HTML Chapter 7: "Forms"**

- p.148: Form controls
- pp.149-50: How forms work
- pp.151-62 : Form structure, overview of all input types
- p.163: Labelling form controls
- p.164: \<fieldset\> and grouping form elements
- pp.165-68 : HTML5 form features (validation, dates, email, URL search)

**HTML Chapter 14: "Lists, Table & Forms" (CSS)**

- p.333-36: Bullet point styles/positioning for lists
- p.337-40: Table properties (VERY useful reference)
- p.341-44: Styling [forms, inputs, buttons, fieldsets, legends]
- p.345: Aligning form controls

**JS Chapter 6: "Events"**

- pp.246-47	Different event types (big list!)
- p.248	How events trigger JavaScript code
- pp.250-53	Three ways to bind an event to an element
- p.254	Event listeners
- p.260	Event flow
- p.264	Using event listeners with the event object
- p.268	Using event delegation
- p.270	Which element did an event occur on?
- p.271	Different types of events
- p.272	User interface events
- p.280	Keyboard events
- p.282	Form events
- p.286	HTML5 events

---

## Dev Tools [15 min]
- Zoom.us group video call demo
- Static code analysis
- Chrome dev tools
  - Code execution trace. Buggy app test: single-step: over, into, out of, resume (&quot;play&quot;)
  - Call stack
  - Review: watch window and context changes
  - Review: "In-place" edits, incl. color palette and color "sampler"

---

## Lab prep [60 min]
- Demo working web app
- Review assignment
- Mob coding
  - HTML
    - 2 text inputs with *placeholder* text
    - 2 tables (each table has 2 rows)
    - 1 button for user input
  - JS
    - Event handler for button click: get user input
    - Create new table &quot;sub-tree&quot; fill in w/ text from user
    - Append table to DOM
    - &quot;Pre-fill in&quot; one of the inputs with a default value
